# Resume

## Education

**Philosophy of Science Student in Evolution, Ecology and Population Biology, Expected July 2017**
<br>Washington University in Saint Louis, Saint Louis, Missouri 
-	Distinguished Individual Leader Award, April 2017
-	Outstanding YSP Director, October 2016
-	Mellon Mays Graduate Initiatives, Pre-doctoral Research Grant, October 2016
-	Gerry and Bob Virgil Ethic of Service Award, March 2016
-	Edward A. Bouchet Fellow, January 2016
-	National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship Program Fellowship, March 2012

**Bachelor of Science in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, May 2011**
<br>Rice University, Houston, Texas  
-	Julian Huxley Award, May 2011 (top award for undergrad research in EEB)
-	Mellon Mays Fellow, February 2009

## Research Experience 

**Graduate Student, July 2012 to Present**
<br>**Graduate Student Researcher in Dr. Gautam Dantas’ Lab, Washington University in Saint Louis**
  -	Research on microbial ecology. 
  -	Train rotation students, undergraduates and high school students: Allison Tielking (high school summer 2014), Max Steger (high school YSP summer 2015)

**Research Technician II, July 2011 to July 2012**
<br>**Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Lab, Washington University in Saint Louis**
-	Research on social evolution in Dictyostelium discoideum. 
-	Train undergraduates on techniques and philosophy necessary for conducting original research 
-	Maintain safety compliance, coordinate experiments, equipment usage, order supplies
-	Created and maintain the lab website: http://strassmannandquellerlab.wordpress.com/ 

**Biological Research Assistant, May 2008 to June 2011**
<br>**Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Lab, Rice University**
-	Experiments on social interactions between social amoebae Dictyostelium purpureum and D. discoideum.
-	Learned techniques including extracting, genotyping and sequencing DNA and growing clones axenically.

## Public Outreach Community Talks/Conferences/Newsarticles

**Community Advisory Board, Washington University in St. Louis, March 2015, December 2015, July 2016**
<br>Bi-annual update on YSP programs and evaluation with advisory board feedback

**Teen Science Café, St. Louis, April 2017**
<br>Bacteria Detective! How Scientists Study Bacteria, https://www.academyofsciencestl.org/event/april-teen-science-cafe/ 

**Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, January 2017**
<br>Sparking curiosity, https://outlook.wustl.edu/sparking-curiosity/ 

**Science Friday, St. Louis, October 2016**
<br>The Microscopic World Beneath Our Feet, http://www.sciencefriday.com/segments/the-microscopic-world-beneath-our-feet/ 

**Society for Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science, Long Beach Convention, October 2016**
<br>Recruiting students of color for the Washington University St. Louis graduate school

**Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Conference Southeastern Regional Conference, Rice & Emory, November 2015, November 2016**
<br>Panelist on how to survive in graduate school 

**Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, July 2015**
<br>WashU grows young scientists, http://www.stltoday.com/news/local/education/article_c83195d9-36a9-5f54-b4e9-59dc1f3628b2.html#.VbuTji45yhs.twitter 

## Leadership Experience 

**The Show Me Costa Rica Project November 2013 – Present**
- This project was created by a teacher in a St. Louis public school who saw the need for students in the inner city to travel internationally. Many students are the first in their families to travel abroad or have a passport.
-	Part of leadership board and helped with fundraisers, created promotional materials, and developed biology modules

**Experimental Ecology, January 2014 to May 2014**
<br>**Teaching Assistant of an Undergraduate Course, Washington University in Saint Louis**
-	Assisted professor with grading papers, facilitating class discussions and designing short experiments.

**Behavioral Ecology, August 2013 to December 2013**
<br>**Teaching Assistant of an Undergraduate Course, Washington University in Saint Louis**
-	Lead a weekly discussion section 6.44/7 overall rating
-	6.33/7 of overall rating of teaching effectiveness 

**Young Scientist Program January 2012 – Present**
-	YSP is a non-profit organization focused on promoting STEM education and encouraging the pursuit of careers in STEM fields by traditionally underrepresented minorities. 
-	Organized meetings and events for high school and middle school students in the Saint Louis area.
-	Co-consultant (2017), Co-Director (2016), Director (2015), Assistant Director (2014), Ecology and Evolution Teaching Team Member (2012), Continuing Mentor (2012-2016)

**Undergraduate Seminar Series, August 2011 to May 2012**
<br>**Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Lab, Washington University in Saint Louis**
-	Train undergraduates how to use R. 
-	Arranged for guest speakers to teach students more about *Dictyostelium discoideum*.

## Publications

Mining the microbiome using genomic technologies for antibiotic resistance and discovery. **Boahemaa Adu-Oppong**, Andrew Gasparrini, Gautam Dantas. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2016 Oct 21. doi: 10.1111/nyas.13257. [Epub ahead of print] PubMed PMID: 27768825

Migration in the social stage of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae impacts competition. Chandra N. Jack, Neil J. Buttery, **Boahemaa Adu-Oppong**, Michael Powers, Joan E. Strassmann and David C. Queller. 2015. Peer J. 

Is there specificity in a defensive mutualism against soil versus lab nematodes, Dictyostelium discoideum farmers and their bacteria? **Boahemaa Adu-Oppong**, Joan E. Strassmann, David C. Queller. 2015. Evolutionary Ecology Research.

Collection and cultivation of Dictyostelids from the wild. Tracy E. Douglas, Debra A. Brock, **Boahemaa Adu-Oppong**, David C. Queller, Joan E. Strassmann. 2012. Dictyostelium Protocols II. Chapter 6. 

Structured growth and genetic drift raise relatedness in the social amoeba D. discoideum. Neil Buttery, Chandra N. Jack, **Boahemaa Adu-Oppong**, Kate Snyder, Chris Thompson, David C. Queller, Joan E. Strassmann. 2012. Biology Letters

Cost of movement in the multicellular stage of Dictyostelium discoideum and D. purpureum. Chandra Jack, **Boahemaa Adu-Oppong**, Michael Powers, Joan E. Strassmann, and David C. Queller. 2011. Ethology, Ecology, and Evolution, 23:358-367

